---

title: "Rocket Lab and Planet Sign Launch Services Agreement "
source: "https://www.rocketlabusa.com/updates/rocket-lab-and-planet-sign-launch-services-agreement/"
author:
  - "[[Rocket Lab]]"
published: 2016-08-18
description: "Planet and Rocket Lab have signed a Launch Services Agreement for at least three dedicated launches on Rocket Lab’s Electron launch vehicle."
customer:
 - "[[Planet Labs]]"
tags:
 - electron
 - launch
---
>[!summary]
#electron #launch
**Title:** Rocket Lab and Planet Sign Launch Services Agreement 
**Source:** https://www.rocketlabusa.com/updates/rocket-lab-and-planet-sign-launch-services-agreement/
**Author:** [[Rocket Lab]]
**Published:** 2016-08-18
**Description:** Planet and Rocket Lab have signed a Launch Services Agreement for at least three dedicated launches on Rocket Lab’s Electron launch vehicle.
**Customer:** [[Planet Labs]]

Planet and Rocket Lab have signed a Launch Services Agreement for at least three dedicated launches on Rocket Lab’s Electron launch vehicle.

The agreement will see Electron used to expand and replenish Planet’s existing on-orbit fleet of Dove satellites. Planet will utilize the full capacity of Electron for each of the launches, which are scheduled to begin in 2017.

“Rocket Lab’s priority for Electron has always been to enable our customers by providing the affordable and frequent service they need to meet their objectives,” said Peter Beck, Rocket Lab CEO. “We look forward to working with Planet, who share our vision of seeing space infrastructure enhance how we use and understand our planet.”

With over 100 satellites already launched, the data generated by Planet’s constellation of Dove satellites can be used for a wide range of commercial and humanitarian applications including generating up-to-date maps, measuring global crop yields, tracking carbon stocks, and providing intelligence for disaster response.

Planet joins NASA, Spire and Moon Express as customers announced to fly on the Electron launch vehicle.

**About Planet**

Planet designs, builds and operates the world’s most capable constellation of Earth-imaging satellites. Planet’s mission is to image the entire Earth, every day and make global change visible, accessible, and actionable. With the complementary Rapid Eye constellation, Planet is revolutionizing the way geospatial imagery is processed, distributed and accessed. Planet is making its satellite data available quickly via web-based APIs and an online catalog, capable of delivering terabytes of new data every day to customers around the world.