---
name: "Q4 2024"
date: 2025-02-26
---

>[!summary]
>Rocket Lab USA, Inc. reported record-breaking financial results for 2024, achieving an annual revenue of $436.2 million, a 78% increase from the previous year, and a fourth-quarter revenue of $132.4 million, marking a 121% year-over-year quarterly growth. The company conducted 16 Electron launches in 2024, a 60% increase from 2023, and secured over $450 million in new contracts across launch and space systems. Significant progress was made on the Neutron program, with a debut launch planned for the second half of 2025. In early 2025, Rocket Lab introduced a new constellation-class satellite platform, further solidifying its position as a comprehensive end-to-end space company.
>
[📊 Earnings Presentation](https://s28.q4cdn.com/737637457/files/doc_financials/2024/q4/Q4-2024-Earnings-Presentation.pdf)
[📰 Official Press Release](https://investors.rocketlabusa.com/news/news-details/2025/Rocket-Lab-Announces-Full-Year--Fourth-Quarter-2024-Financial-Results-Posts-Record-Revenue-Representing-26-Sequential-Growth-78-Annual-Growth-and-121-Year-on-Year-Quarterly-Growth/default.aspx)
[💰 Financial Statement 10-K](https://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0001819994/c5d1fba9-6e22-42ae-8e23-a15229a11f4d.pdf)
[💰 Financial Statement 8-K](https://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0001819994/0fbb0efa-5b5a-4173-bc8a-aa3035698a66.pdf)

<div class="responsive-video">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bz1-_nGKzak" title="Rocket Lab Q4 2024 Financial Results and Earnings Call" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

## 🎙️ Transcript

### Kelvin, Conference Operator 
Good evening and thank you for standing by. My name is Kelvin and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Rocket Lab’s Fourth Quarter twenty twenty four Financial Results Update and Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question and answer session.

Thank you. I would now like to turn the call over to Mariel Baker, Inter Communications Manager. Please go ahead.

### Murielle Baker 
Thank you. Hello, and welcome to today’s conference call to discuss Rocket Lab’s full year and fourth quarter twenty twenty four financial results. Before we begin the call, I’d like to remind you that our remarks may contain forward looking statements that relate to the future performance of the Company, and these statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbor protection from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and factors that could influence our results are highlighted in today’s press release and others are contained in our filings with the Security and Exchange Commission. Such statements are based upon information available to the company as of the date hereof and are subject to change for future developments.

Except as required by law, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update these statements. Our remarks and press release today also contain non GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G enacted by the SEC. Included in such release and our supplemental materials are reconciliations of these historical non GAAP financial measures to the comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. This call is also being webcast with a supporting presentation and a replay and copy of the presentation will be available on our website. Our speakers today are Rocket Lab’s Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Sir Peter Beck, as well as Chief Financial Officer, Adam Spice.

They’ll be discussing key business developments and highlights including updates on our launch and space systems programs. We will discuss financial highlights and outlook before we finish by taking questions. So with that, let me turn the call over to Sir Peter.

### Peter Beck 
Thanks, Marielle and thanks for everybody joining us today. Look, 2024 was our biggest revenue year ever and I’m proud to share that we delivered very strong results for Q4 twenty twenty four and indeed for the full year. We achieved our highest annual revenue figure to date of AUD $436,000,000, that’s more than 78% increase on previous year’s revenue, demonstrating that our strategy of delivering end to end space services is paying off and delivering significant growth. From Q3 to Q4 last year, we saw growth of more than 26% and year on year Q4 growth was 121%. Something you’ll hear me say often at Rocket Lab is we do what we say we’re going to do and in this case that’s delivering significant growth, 382% increase in Q4 revenue to be precise since our entry into the NASDAQ in 2021.

On the launch side, these figures are driven by an increase of [[Electron]] launch cadence and the introduction of hypersonic suborbital test launch capabilities. Space Systems contribution has been continued strong execution across both spacecraft and constellation build and operation as well as our merchant satellite component businesses. Now let’s dig into these areas in a little bit more detail in the following slides. Our accomplishments in 2024 really speak for those record numbers. On the launch front we delivered a record number of 16 launches spanning [[Electron]] and [[HASTE]] all with 100% mission success. Once again we have maintained our position as the leading small launch provider globally and the second most frequently launched U. S. Rocket annually. We signed more than $450,000,000 in new contracts in 2024 across launch and space systems, further strengthening our backlog which currently sits at just over $1,000,000,000 We also achieved a world first by successfully launching two missions within twenty four hours from pads on either side of the planet. On the space systems front, there are too many achievements to distill into one slide so here are just a couple of my favorites. We made significant progress on the design and build of the 40 plus spacecraft in our backlog but I’m particularly proud of the team completing the manufacture and test of the twin spacecraft for [[NASA]]’s escapade mission to Mars. They did this on an impressively short timeframe and an incredibly cost competitive for an interplanetary mission.

While they’re yet to launch, we are excited to see these birds on their way to the Red Planet soon. Our reentry to [[Varda Space Industries|Varda]] was another major milestone successfully enabling the first in space manufacturing mission outside the International Space Station. Since first reentry early last year, we’ve delivered two more Pioneer spacecraft for [[Varda Space Industries|Varda]] with the second returning to earth in South Australia. Another third Pioneer spacecraft for [[Varda Space Industries|Varda]] is just now days away from launch. That’s just a tiny snapshot of our achievements in 2024, but before we dig deeper into the updates across Electron, Neutron and Space Systems, I want to provide an overview of our strategic focus for this year.

We’re building a truly end to end space company, that means owning the full value chain of having the keys to unlock enormous potential from the rapidly growing space economy. The first two steps are well underway with launch in space systems meaning that we have our own ride to space and we can build and operate the satellites on orbit. The final remaining step is space applications or delivering data or services from space using our own constellation. In 2024, we made significant progress across all three and we’re building on that again in 2025. On the launch front, this year is the year of Neutron.

We look forward to unlocking the medium launch bottleneck by bringing Neutron to the pad to help launch and more than estimated 10,000 Constellation spacecraft that need deployment in the coming decade. We’re continuing to wrap up our small launch cadence with more than 20 missions in 2025 on the manifest across Electron and [[HASTE]]. Of course as usual these missions only launch when our customers are ready. It’s worth pointing out that as far as I’m aware Rocket Lab is the only launch provider with missions scheduled this year across small launch, medium launch, hypersonic suborbital test launch. This demonstrates the breadth of our launch experience and capabilities and also positions us to take advantage of the TAM exposure across several different growing launch markets.

On the space systems front, we have more than 40 spacecraft in various stages of production right now. By the end of summer this year we expect to have more than quadruple the number of Rocket Lab spacecraft on orbit ready to launch or have completed their missions. I’m also excited to reveal a new addition to our spacecraft line up, one that slots nicely into our vision for space applications and I’ll talk more about this satellite later in the call. But first, so now for some updates on [[Electron]]. Twenty twenty four was a fantastic year for [[Electron]].

Last year we increased our launch cadence 60% year on year and 2025 is shaping up to be even bigger. We’ve launched twice this year already both times for satellite constellation operators and each with only ten days of each other within ten days of each other. Last year’s trend was building out satellite constellations with [[Electron]]. In Q1 twenty twenty five this has continued with launches for constellation operators [[BlackSky]] and [[Kinéis]], both of whom have booked multiple missions on [[Electron]] to deploy or replenish their constellations. [[Kinéis]] in particular is worth calling out since we launched them for the first time in June as part of a five launch deal.

We’re now four launches in and on track to complete their fifth launch shortly meaning that we will have deployed their full constellation of 25 satellites in less than a year. And to put that into perspective, many constellation operators can wait for a year for their first launch with other providers. Last year we also signed a multi launch deal with the Japanese earth imaging company IQPS for four electrons and then just this month they signed another agreement to double that and lock in eight [[Electron]] launches for their constellation deployment over 2025 and 2026. In 2024 we built on our success in the small launch market with [[Electron]]’s suborbital variant, [[HASTE]]. Last year’s Pentagon budget request for hypersonic research was up 46% to US6.9 billion dollars on the two years prior and we’re ideally positioned to support this expanding market.

We’re the only commercial provider that’s executed two launches in twenty one days for the Department of Defense, MACH TB program, which we completed in Q4 and we have another five [[HASTE]] missions locked in for the DoD and its contractors. In January we also announced that we’ve been selected by Kratos to support the next phase of the March MACH TB program called MARC TB two point zero. It’s a 1,450,000,000 five year contract to expand hypersonic technology testing and with [[HASTE]] we’re uniquely suited to meet that challenge. I think it’s also important to place all of that within the wider context of today’s geopolitics and America’s defense technology. Hypersonics have become increasingly urgent under the new administration.

In the words of the President, within the executive order he issued in January to build the Iron Dome for America, the threat of hypersonic and other advanced aerial attacks is the most serious threat facing The United States today. Furthering peace whose strength is critical to America’s defense, our capabilities with [[HASTE]], our affordability and our speed, all of which are the new administration’s top priorities, makes it a great product fit to address these challenges. Right, moving on from small launch into Neutron updates. Well, the title really here sees it all. This is the year of Neutron monopoly breaker to unlock the bottleneck of medium launch.

As I said before, there’s more than 10,000 satellites that need launch in the next five years from commercial constellations alone and then there’s the growing demand from national security and defense missions as well as interplanetary exploration for the science community and it goes on. The need is clear so I won’t labor on it other than to say that the industry is crying out for more launch options in this class and Neutron is coming to market in record time to deliver it. Neutron is also critical to us launching and operating our own future satellite constellation. So over the next few slides I’ll take you through the latest development milestones and achievements as we work to get Neutron on the pad in the second half of this year. Okay, so at LC3 all major hardware and infrastructure items have arrived and been installed and our civil works on the site are practically finished.

Yes, and we even have water. Most recent updates include the FLIR stack, 165 ton steel circular launch mount structure that Neutron will launch from, giant pair of LNG tanks, the ones you can see in the bottom left of the slides. Those are the heaviest objects to have ever crossed the Wallops Island Bridge, and their installation marks the completion of all the long lead propellant storage for the launch site. What’s left now is to complete the electrical and mechanical connections for a fully integrated system, but otherwise we look forward to its grand opening in a few short months. Now on to the one of the most exciting and novel features of Neutron, its hungry hippo faring.

The massive reusable nose cone halves are now live and moving, fully integrated with their avionics and actuators and all of the mechanical systems. We’re testing like we’re flying, opening and closing the hungry hippo at full speed to understand exactly how they behave and it’s great to say I was there in person for the first slot of testing and I can tell you that it’s a wonderful sound to hear the hungry hippo in action and I fully encourage you to go and check out the video we’ll put out today of all of that testing in action, it’s pretty cool. We have a few more run throughs as we add some hardware, then they’ll soon be making their way over to our assembly and integration facilities ready to be fitted to Neutron’s first stage for launch.

Let me draw you a to the picture on the top left, that’s our stage one tank stacked and ready to ship out. Check out the person at the bottom of the frame and for scale and you can see the size of that tank. All of the launch vehicle is currently in production with significant parts of it currently in test before being shipped out to the launch site for integration. We are even moving past Flight one with structures including fairing halves already in production for our second Neutron rocket. For Flight one though, all of Neutron’s largest pieces will soon be moving across the country and making their way to the East Coast.

They’ll be integrated with all the avionics and software and it’ll go with the fit checks and AIT before going straight into full system qualification. So keep an eye out for pictures of tanks and barges to know where we’re getting closer to that next milestone. Now on to Archimedes, the engines qualification campaign continues at a cracking pace We’re hot firing every few days and the testing is going well. We’ve got engines consistently moving across the country between the production line in Long Beach and the engine test site in Mississippi. You also may have seen we shared a recent update that performance iterations on the production line have resulted more than a couple of hundred kilograms shed from the engine which is always good.

And also check out the size of that second stage nozzle expansion cone in the bottom left of the slide that were recently produced and on its way for testing. It’s a cool thing. Okay. So from engine testing, we’re really doubling down on our test cadence to match with the increased production rate out of Long Beach. So we’re running a really intensifying test campaign on multiple engines as we lead up to Flight one.

So in that case, the build of a second Archimedes engine test cell is nearly complete and This enables us to concurrently test engines as our investments in production ramp up. So having two cells is always good. Now we’ve provided plenty of updates on where Neutron will lift off but not much where it will land. Well, here she is, meet return on investment, we named that specifically for Adam Spice. Neutron’s four hundred foot ocean land platform, that’s what we see on the screen there, The image at the bottom of the left also providing a great sense of scale how big this vessel actually is.

Alongside shore based landing sites and the ocean platform gives us the flexibility to maximize the vehicle’s performance by allowing us to dedicate less propellant to landing and more to lifting our customers payloads to diverse and complex orbits. With the vessel secured, work has now begun on modifying it, we’re adding autonomous ground support equipment that secures Neutron to the deck when it lands, heat shielding, propulsive systems and things to keep it on target for Neutron’s return. The landing platform is also a clear indication that we’re scaling up and moving past first minimum viable product with Neutron now. With one launch set for ’25, we’re aiming to triple that in ’26 and then the landing barge is obviously critical to that ramp up. Now recovery isn’t planned on the barge for the first test flight, we’ll be doing a soft splashdown, but we can expect return on investment to live up its name in ’twenty six when it enters service for all the future Neutron flights.

Now the road to launch. I’m often asked what should we look at to indicate Neutron’s progress to the pad because there’s just so much going on. So we tried to create a little bit of a visual overview here of the big ticket items that we’re running concurrently right now and what’s left to go to get to the pad. We’ve always been clear that we run aggressive schedules and that gets us to the pad on a rapid timeframe. But of course nobody wants to get the rocket faster to pad than I do.

The important thing to point out here is that these tasks are not serial. We don’t wait to finish one before starting the next. Everything has been worked on concurrently and some of them are long pieces, long lead pieces that might come together just days before the launch, for example a launch license. This is an air force radio as everyone knows, we’re no strangers to bringing in a new rocket to market. We’re running aggressive schedules as we always do.

At the end of the day, as I’ve always said, it’s --

>[!warning]
>Conference call was cut off briefly

### Kelvin, Conference Operator 
Ladies and gentlemen, this is the operator. I apologize, but there will be a slight delay in today’s conference.


### Peter Beck 
Uh-huh. Sorry that everyone. I’m not sure why the line dropped there. But I’ll reiterate the previous slide just to make sure that everybody got it. So I’m often asked what we should look for and to indicate Neutron’s progress to the pad. So we’ve created a visual overview here of the big ticket items that we’re running concurrently right now and what is left to go to get us to the pad and flight this year.

We’ve always been really clear that we run aggressive schedules and that gets us to the pad quickly and of course I want to get to the pad faster than anybody else. The important thing to point out here is all these tasks are not serial. We don’t wait to finish one before starting the next. Everything has been worked concurrently and some of them are long lead pieces that come together literally days before the launch, for example a launch license. And now of course this isn’t our first rodeo and we’re no strangers to bringing a new rocket to the pad.

We run aggressive schedules and at the end of the day as I always say it’s a rocket program but right now we’re planning for first launch in the second half of this year. I’m very happy with the progress of the development program. Neutron is going to be a really important vehicle for the industry and we’re excited to see to be the ones delivering that. So moving on from launch now and to provide some updates on our space systems businesses. I’m happy to share mission success for our latest spacecraft [[Varda Space Industries|Varda]].

In the early hours of this morning and I mean early, our Pioneer spacecraft flawlessly executed an earth reentry maneuver and deployed [[Varda Space Industries|Varda]]’s capsule to land in South Australia. The mission was launched in January and had been operating on orbit for over a month delivering critical mission functions for [[Varda Space Industries|Varda's]] capsule. We have our third Pioneer class satellite with its [[Varda Space Industries|Varda's]] capsule ready and waiting for launch in the coming days which is the second satellite ready for launch of this program within a month. For our Space Systems team, they’re busy right now helping land a [[NASA]] lunar lander mission on the moon. After its forty five day journey through space, our very own space grade solar cells have provided over fourteen hundred operational hours of power for this mission, while the space software team have been providing 20 fourseven support for the orbit control and engine burns that have gotten this apart.

They’ll be continuing that support for the mission right through its most critical phases too including landing on the moon itself. On the national defense side, our team is really hitting their stride with two critical programs. We’re now deep into the detailed design phase of our $500,000,000 prime contract with the [[Space Development Agency (SDA)]]. Early last month we cleared a critical step of the program, the first design review that ensures our satellites and how they operate all meet the rigorous mission requirements set down by the US Department of Defense. All 18 satellites use practically every one of their integrated subsystems and components including solar panels, composite structures, star trackers, reaction wheels, radios, flight, ground software, avionics, launch dispensers and so on and so forth.

It’s a high level control over our own products within our own prime programs that gives us the ability to deliver world class national defense solutions with certainty on cost and schedule and of course quality. We also have our twenty four hour notice responsive space mission coming up this year for the U. S. Space Force. This one is a $32,000,000 Victor Hays (LON:HAYS) mission with a Rocket Lab satellite launching on a Rocket Lab [[Electron]] on short notice to demonstrate that we can respond to threats on very short timelines.

In the defense industry that’s called tactical responsive space. It’s a hugely complex yet sought after capability that the Pentagon is eager to have on hand with trusted commercial partners. With their proven capabilities across space systems and launch, it’s a position we’re uniquely suited for. Now most of those missions employ spacecraft from our line up of standard standard vertically integrated satellites that we announced last year. But today I’m excited to share a big announcement.

Please meet Flatellite, a low cost mass producible satellite tailored for large constellations. Now we’ve developed Flatellite after many years of working closely with constellation operators and getting to deeply understand their needs of today and of course into the future. Flatellite is a scalable resilient high power satellite that can enable capabilities such as secure low latency high speed connectivity and remote sensing for national security, defense and commercial markets. With Flatellite we can do something few spacecraft manufacturers can. We can build it fast, cost effectively and in high volumes thanks to our experience in spacecraft production combined with deep vertical integration of our in house components.

This puts us in greater control of cost and schedule than others relying on constrained supply chains. What’s more, once we’ve built them we can launch the ourselves too, that’s thanks to its low profile stackable design we can maximize the number of Flatellite launched per mission, ensuring seamless integration with Neutron. The bottom far right render with Flatellite stacked inside Neutron’s fairings gives you a bit of an idea of the scale here. Now the Flatellite is more than just a new product development to serve our customers’ ever evolving needs though. It’s a bold, strategic move towards completing the final step of Rocket Lab’s ultimate vision of truly becoming an end to end space company and operating its own constellation and delivering services from space.

By having our own ride to space with Neutron and [[Electron]], and being able to build our own spacecraft in high volumes, we are at a distinct advantage when it comes to establishing constellations with speed and cost efficiency. That’s about all we can share on Flatellite today, but I’m excited to be able to share more with you soon on this, so watch this space. So with that, I’ll hand it over to Adam now to provide further commentary and to discuss our financial highlights and outlook. 

### Adam Spice 
Thanks Pete. Fourth quarter twenty twenty four revenue was $132,000,000 which was above the midpoint of our prior guidance range and reflects significant year over year growth of 121% driven by strong contribution from both business segments but led by Space Systems. Fourth quarter revenue represented a sequential increase of 26.3% primarily due to the increase in launches from 3% to 5% including two [[HASTE]] missions during the quarter which come at a higher ASP versus standard electron missions. On a full year basis 2024 revenue was $436,000,000 an impressive growth of approximately 78% year on year. Our Launch Services segment delivered revenue of $42,400,000 and our current [[Electron]] and [[HASTE]] backlog continues to support an increasing ASP with some quarterly variability tied to volume purchase commitments, launch location and mission assurance requirements.

On a full year basis, Launch delivered revenue of $125,400,000 which is an increase of roughly 74% year on year. Our Space Systems segment delivered $90,000,000 in the quarter, reflecting sequential growth of over 7% driven primarily by a strong quarter from satellite manufacturing and our attitude direction and control subsystems business. On a full year basis, Space Systems delivered revenue of $310,800,000 or an increase of 80% year on year. Now turning to gross margin. GAAP gross margin for the fourth quarter was 27.8% at the high end of our prior guidance range of 26% to 28%.

Non GAAP gross margin for the fourth quarter was 34%, which was also at the end of our prior guidance range of 32% to 34%. On a full year basis, GAAP gross margin was 26.6% while non GAAP gross margin was 32%. Although gross margins in our launch business can be volatile quarter to quarter dependent upon customer mix and mission type, In 2025, we expect continued margin expansion in both segments as [[Electron]]’s cadence continues to increase at higher ASPs and our Space Systems business continues to scale. Relatedly, we ended Q4 with production related headcount of 1,004 heads, up 40 from the prior quarter. Turning to backlog, we ended Q4 twenty twenty four with $1,070,000,000 of total backlog with launch backlog of $386,000,000 and space systems backlog of $681,000,000 While year on year backlog growth was modest at approximately 2%, this should be put in the context of increasing lumpiness of backlog additions given the timing of increasingly larger needle moving deals and customer program opportunities.

Sequentially, there was a slight remixing of our backlog as a result of particularly strong bookings in our launch segment, which we expect to continue as we convert our pipeline of Neutron opportunities. At first glance, our backlog has roughly a fifty fifty split between government and commercial. But as you dig deeper, many of our commercial customers ultimately cater to the needs of U. S. Government and other friendly nations.

We view this as a significant advantage, especially in evolving political and budgetary environments as government’s focus on space and efficiency remains a high priority. We continue to cultivate a healthy pipeline including multi launch deals and large satellite manufacturing contracts that as mentioned earlier can create lumpiness in backlog growth given the size and complexity of these opportunities. We expect approximately 50% of current backlog to be recognized as revenues within twelve months. Turning to operating expenses in the quarter. GAAP operating expenses for the fourth quarter of twenty twenty four were $88,400,000 modestly above our guidance range of $84,000,000 to $86,000,000 Non GAAP operating expenses for the fourth quarter were $74,500,000 just below our guidance range of $75,000,000 to $77,000,000 GAAP operating expenses grew 39% from the prior quarter’s prior year fourth quarter, almost entirely related to a step up in Neutron spending, particularly Archimedes testing, investments in composite structures development and IT related spending, including a step up in cybersecurity requirements related to our U.S. Government programs. Non GAAP operating expenses also grew 39% year on year, largely due to the same reasons as our GAAP OpEx increases, less the effect of stock based compensation expenses and non recurring transaction costs. Now focusing on quarter over quarter changes. The sequential increases in both GAAP and non GAAP operating expenses were primarily driven by continued growth in headcount and prototype spending to support our Neutron development program and related IT infrastructure and IT support for both Neutron and our SDA satellite contract.

In R and D specifically, GAAP expenses increased $532,000 quarter on quarter due to Neutron prototyping materials and headcount growth. Non GAAP R and D expenses were up $3,300,000 quarter on quarter more than the GAAP increase due to fluctuations in non cash stock based compensation between R and D and cost of sales related to the EAC accounting of our space systems manufacturing programs. As such, the non GAAP R and D increase of $3,300,000 represents well the underlying trend in core R and D spend in the business, again driven largely by investments in Neutron. Q4 ending R and D headcount was $8.28, representing an increase of 52 for the prior quarter. In SG and A, GAAP expenses increased $7,900,000 quarter on quarter largely due to an increase in outside services related to IT, legal and finance with IT spend largely related to security and cyber security requirements under our SDA contract, legal spend supporting a range of corporate initiatives including corporate development and year end audit activities which are paired with an increase in staff costs.

With that GAAP spend, we reported non recurring transaction costs of $2,200,000 in Q4, owing to a step up in corporate development activities, including advancing a robust pipeline of M and A opportunities. Non GAAP SG and A expenses increased by $2,500,000 driven by the previously mentioned GAAP increases. Q4 ending SG and A headcount was three twenty nine, representing an increase of 29 from the prior quarter. In summary, total fourth quarter headcount was 2,161 up 121 heads from the prior quarter. Turning to cash, purchases of property equipment and capitalized software licenses were $21,500,000 in the fourth quarter of twenty twenty four, an increase of $10,500,000 from the $11,000,000 in the third quarter of twenty twenty four.

As we continue to invest in Neutron research, testing and scaling production, we expect increased capital expenditures to continue for the next few quarters. Cash consumed from operations was $2,400,000 in the fourth quarter of twenty twenty four compared to $30,900,000 in the third quarter of twenty twenty four. The sequential improvement of $28,500,000 was driven primarily by the increased Space Systems programs milestone receipts, which can be lumpy. Overall, non GAAP free cash flow defined as GAAP operating cash flow less purchases of property, equipment and capitalized software in the fourth quarter of twenty twenty four was a use of $23,900,000 compared to $41,900,000 in the third quarter of twenty twenty four. We do expect a pickup in cash consumption in Q1 owing to an expected increase in Neutron spending ahead of our twenty twenty five launch and the lumpiness in large contract driven space systems milestone collections, which are projected to be lower in Q1 off a strong Q4 combined with higher payment outflows to our STA program subcons that we expect will ultimately be reflected in higher revenue recognition in the back half of twenty twenty five.

The ending balance of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and marketable securities was $484,000,000 as of the end of the fourth quarter of twenty twenty four. We exited Q4 in a strong position to execute on our organic expansion initiatives as well as inorganic options to further vertically integrate our supply chain with the critical capabilities and expand our adjustable market consistent with what we have done successfully in the past. Adjusted EBITDA loss was $23,200,000 in the fourth quarter of twenty twenty four, modestly above our guidance range of a $27,000,000 to $29,000,000 loss. The sequential improvement of $7,700,000 was primarily driven by revenue growth and gross margin improvement across both segments. And with that, let’s turn to our guidance for the first quarter of twenty twenty five.

We expect revenue in the first quarter to range between $117,000,000 and $123,000,000 representing approximately 29% year on year revenue growth at the midpoint and expect a return to sequential growth in Q2 driven by strength in our Space Systems business. We expect first quarter GAAP gross margin to range between 25% to 27% and non GAAP gross margin to range between 30% to 32%. These forecasted GAAP and non GAAP gross margins reflect less favorable mix within our Space Systems segment and a lower launch ASP driven by customer mix discussed earlier. We expect first quarter GAAP operating expenses to range between $93,000,000 and $95,000,000 and non GAAP operating expenses to range between $77,000,000 and $79,000,000 The quarter on quarter increases are driven primarily by continued Neutron investment into staff costs, prototyping and materials. We expect first quarter GAAP and non GAAP net interest expense to be $2,700,000 We expect first quarter adjusted EBITDA loss to range between $33,000,000 and $35,000,000 and basic weighted average common shares outstanding to be approximately $458,000,000 shares, which excludes convertible preferred shares of approximately 51,000,000.

Lastly, given where we are in the final push to not only get Neutron to the pad this year, but also make advanced production scaling CapEx investments such as the recovery barge that Pete spoke about earlier, as well as investing in inventory for subsequent Neutron tails beyond the test launch tail this year, cash consumption will increase and diverge more than it has normally from adjusted EBITDA. We continue to see the program investment in getting to Neutron minimum viable product and infrastructure to be consistent with our initial estimates of approximately $250,000,000 to $300,000,000 having spent approximately $200,000,000 of gross GAAP OpEx and CapEx through the end of twenty twenty four on this program. Specifically, over the last four quarters, total cash consumption has been running between approximately $20,000,000 and $40,000,000 per quarter and we expect this number to increase in Q1 due to a combination of these Neutron related investments as well as long lead procurement items for our SDA program and a lack of significant contractual milestone payments receivable across our [[MDA]] [[Globalstar]] (NASDAQ:GSAT) and SDA programs in the quarter. While we proactively manage the working capital elements of our business, this unique situation is likely to result in an increase in cash consumption to approximately double from its prior range of $20,000,000 to $40,000,000 in Q1.

We expect this dynamic to moderate in coming quarters with resumption of contractual milestone payment schedules under our large space systems programs and as we get the minimum viable infrastructure in place to support the inaugural launch of Neutron later this year. And with that, we’ll hand the call over to the operator for questions.

## ❓Q&A

### Kelvin, Conference Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question and answer session. Your first question comes from the line of Edison Yu of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

### Edison Yu
Thanks for taking our questions. One, the first one on Neutron and to check the language around the timing, I think in the past, it’s been talked about as mid-2025, now you’re saying second half. Is this just kind of semantics, you know, it’s a couple of months or are you trying to maybe put some cushion or take more time with any of the processes?

### Peter Beck
Yes. Hi, Edison. We’ve sort of said in the past mid-2025. So yes, we’re giving ourselves a little bit more time to get it to the pad and get the launch. But I mean, we’re talking months here. It’s not very material.

### Edison Yu
Understood. And just in terms of the launch itself, what would you kind of define as success? And I frame it in the context of, let’s say, it gets to orbit, does that mean we’re pretty confident in the three for next year? Just curious on the parameters for what you would define as mission success.

### Peter Beck
Yes. No, absolutely. Our intention is to go to orbit. Anything less than that is not where we want to be. Our intention is orbital on the first flight, which some people in the space industry who know it well realize that that is difficult to do. But like I say, this is our second time around, so that’s what we define as success for that mission.

### Kelvin, Conference Operator
Great. Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Andres Sheppard of Cantor Fitzgerald. Please go ahead.

### Andres Sheppard
Hey, everyone. Congratulations on the quarter and thanks for the very thorough updates. Congrats on all the progress as well. Peter, just maybe to follow up on the Neutron question. How confident are you in launching this year? And as we look into 2026, how should we think about the revenue mix starting to shift between space systems and launch systems? Thank you.

### Peter Beck
Yes. I’ll ask the first part of the question, Andras, and then pass it off to Adam for the second half. But I mean, look, we’re not tracking any major events that would cause us to be concerned about trying to get this away this year. Of course, it’s a rocket program, we have some major tests to complete. But at this stage, we are tracking pretty confidently to try and get this launch away.

### Adam Spice
Yes, and I can take the second piece of that, Andres. The mix in this business is not going to be too unpredictable. If we continue to see growth in our Electron business, that will become a smaller part of our overall launch revenue once Neutron starts to fly in its revenue-generating form. If you extend our launch business, as Pete mentioned earlier, beyond 20 launches this year, it indicates continued growth into 2026.

When you start introducing Neutron launches at the prices we’ve discussed, in the $50-$55 million range, you’re potentially looking at Neutron’s first year of revenue production equaling what Electron achieved in its eighth year. That shows the power Neutron brings to the model. We also expect significant growth in our space systems business in 2026. Currently, our mix is about 70-30 space systems to launch. I think you’ll see launch become a greater part of that mix. Long-term, Pete and I have always talked about a two-thirds space system, one-third launch mix to balance out the natural lumpiness of launch.

### Andres Sheppard
Got it. That’s super helpful guys. Really appreciate that. Maybe just a quick follow-up on space systems. Can you maybe just remind us what are some key awards or key catalysts that we can look forward to this year or maybe things that are not necessarily reflected in the backlog? Thank you.

### Peter Beck
Yes, Andreas. As Adam mentioned earlier, the programs we chase are significant. That creates some lumpiness in the backlog. We have been very competitive on the FDA mission and will continue to bid on those. Additionally, there are new missions related to the Iron Dome that we believe we are well positioned for. There is some industry uncertainty under the new administration and Defense Force regarding which programs are getting accelerated or slowed down, so we have to roll with that a little bit.

### Kelvin, Conference Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Suji Desilva of Roth Capital. Please go ahead.

### Suji Desilva
Hi, Peter. Hi, Adam. Congratulations on naming a boat, Adam. Regarding Neutron costs, I just want to understand if it’s still your expectation that costs will stair-step down with the first launch, or will it lag a little? Any color there would be helpful.

### Adam Spice
Yes, I can take that. This first test launch is an R&D launch, so there won’t be any revenue. Over time, we’ll gain production efficiencies from the first to the second and third tail. But the biggest factor is reusability. The barge introduced earlier is key. The question is when we feel comfortable attempting the first landing. When we achieve that, and successfully reuse the booster multiple times as we designed it for, we will see significant margin expansion. Neutron’s cost is dictated primarily by reusability.

### Peter Beck
Exactly. The design burdens most costs into the first stage, as it’s intended to be reused. That’s a key design element.

### Kelvin
Your next question comes from the line of Trevor Walsh of Citizens JMP. Please go ahead.

### Trevor Walsh
Great. Hi, gents. Thanks for taking the question. Just to piggyback off that Flatellite question, Peter, is there, I think the deck said there was flexibility around the payload and just in kind of looking how you’re going to have the sort of stacking mix there within Neutron. Are there any limitations around the payload or like type of payload?

I’m thinking more kind of in the earth sensing kind of the earth observation type realm as far as cameras and such.

### Peter Beck
Yes, that’s a great question, Trevor. So I mean the flat structure doesn’t lend itself to large optical apertures that’s for sure like big telescopes. But basically everything else it’s super ideal for. So we do the way that the structure is designed is we do have flexibility to grow the payload bay depth and array sizes pretty easily. It’s like a think of it like a ladder backpack onto those structures.

So we can shrink and grow various payloads pretty easily. So we’ve really given a lot of thought to not only what our customers are asking us now, but future proof in their design so that we can can address a number of different applications with it.

### Trevor Walsh
Great. Awesome. Appreciate the color. And then maybe, Adam, one quick follow-up for you. Around the R and D headcount increases and maybe more specific to Neutron, is the would the plan for those kind of heads be to kind of stay within the Neutron family?

Or would they be able to be tasked and used kind of broader around launch or even into space systems? Just trying to get a sense of kind of, again, around the cost question for Neutron if headcount requirements kind of once the first launch goes abate a little bit and, just how that kind of again more headcount employee type based kind of cost around the build out kind of might flow? Thanks.

### Adam Spice
Yes. I’d encourage you to think more of it in terms of kind of how does the P and L morph over time. And I think certainly as we get past the first launch, you’ll see R and D begin to subside pretty significantly. Now a lot of the heads if we kind of take our past experience and kind of extrapolate that out, we tend to hire very talented kind of athletes if you will in engineering functions which can do lots of different things. And so you find people that are super effective doing R and D work and then they pivot over to production and they kind of work on production engineering, ME type of support work. So I wouldn’t think so much of kind of elimination as much as repurposing from R and D into production because as you’re ramping a new vehicle, there’s still R and D type of elements and kind of skills that are necessary to kind of bring that vehicle into its mature state. So that’s the way I would encourage it. So certainly we expect assuming it’s step down in R and D, but those heads just really kind of or the expense related to those types of heads really move into cost of sales at that point.

And I’ll maybe let Pete speak to the mix if he has any different views. But certainly, I think the one thing that’s key is aside from the head, just certainly prototyping expenses will drop significantly. And a lot of what we’re spending our money on today for Neutron is prototyping expense, which is flowing through R and D.

### Peter Beck
Yes, I think you said it well Adam. Nothing to add there further.

### Trevor Walsh
Great. Thanks, all. Appreciate the questions.

### Kelvin, Conference Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Leshock of KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

### Michael Leshock
Hey, good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. I wanted to start on the Archimedes hot fires. You’ve significantly increased your testing cadence there and the fire looks very clean. So, really good to see that.

And just wondering if you could touch on any of the changes that you’ve made to the propulsion system since the initial hot fire last August? And kind of where does Archimedes sit today in terms of readiness for the first launch in meeting or exceeding your performance requirements?

### Peter Beck
Yes. Hi, Michael. Good questions. So, yes, no, we’re running engines just all the time. A qualification program, it covers a lot of different run conditions.

And it’s not like the engine just needs to start on the ground once and ascend. We have a whole bunch of other run conditions where the propellant needs to sit for a while and do the reentry and landing burns and of course the stage one engine is the same as stage two, so you’ve got big cost periods in relights. So the qualification campaign is pretty big. I’m pretty happy with the engine to be fair. The changes that we made to remove mass were in large part to increase production ability.

Whenever you design something and you put it in production, you inevitably find the things that you don’t like. So being agile enough at this stage to change them, change the various things we want to is the right time to do it. It gets harder once the engine is all qualified. And the team is just working through it and we added that extra cell for the very reason is just a tremendous amount of testing to get through and tweaking. And, yes, we’re just kind of hammering away at it.

### Michael Leshock
Okay. Great. And maybe shifting to Electron, if we look longer term at Electron’s launch prospect, you know, if LC1 can provide 120 launch opportunities annually, and then maybe another 12 at LC2, is this strategy are you looking to max out the launch capacity with maybe over 100 plus launches per year? Or does the supply demand environment create a more attractive business model at maybe 30 or 40 electrons per year? Just wondering where that sweet spot is for electron launches as we look out three to five plus years down the road?

### Peter Beck
Yes. Good question. So I mean, my answer is as many as possible, right? That’s what we want to see. When we developed LC1 and we had to license that site, we obviously never wanted to be constrained by the licensing on that site.

So we just thought of the biggest number we could back in 2016 and that’s that. So we have plenty of capacity there. And even the capacity even though we’ve got 12 capacity out of LC2 that can be amended and improved. So that’s not that much of a constraint either. But it’s really just the market demand and the good news is it continues to grow year on year.

Every year we sell more electrons in the previous year, which is great. But that’s really the driving factor behind it. And as we look out in the following years, we’ve seen strong growth in electron sales year on year.

### Michael Leshock
Appreciate all the color and congrats on all the milestones in the quarter.

### Peter Beck
Thanks, Michael.

### Kelvin, Conference Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky of Citi. Please go ahead.

### Jason Gursky
Hey, good afternoon, everybody. Hey, Peter, recognizing that space is hard, you guys are running aggressive timelines to your own admission on the Neutron. Maybe you could just walk us through the things that have caused the delays at each point. So I think we had push from the fourth quarter excuse me second half of twenty twenty four into mid twenty twenty five now into the second half of twenty twenty five. What are you seeing that is causing you to make those changes?

### Peter Beck
Yes, yes. Thanks, Jason. Well, I mean, firstly, if we stand back and look at the context of the timeline of a rocket program, this is still the crazy fast compared to just about any historic rocket program. So there is that it was always good to anchor on that. But look, there’s no one thing.

It’s not like we had a giant engine failure or a tank failure or anything like that. There’s no one thing. I would say probably the most frustrating thing is some of the large structures and third party providers, we always end up having to pull stuff in house because we get let down by a number of providers. And I’d say that that’s caused a bit of delay. Early in the program, it’s fair to say that we had to deal with some kind of COVID issues so we just couldn’t get concrete and we couldn’t get steel, couldn’t buy CNC machines.

Those things had really long lead times associated with them. Now of course that’s not the case now but that sort of got us off to a little bit of a slow start. But there’s no like one big thing that’s just sort of got in the road. We continue to push hard and like I say, there’s no giant thing. And if something went put its leg well out of bed, then of course we would let everybody know.

But at the moment, we’re just sort of just eating away at it.

### Jason Gursky
Yes. And you mentioned suppliers. How much dependency do you have at this point to get this all wrapped up? Is this 90% under your control at this point? Do you still have some dependencies with suppliers?

### Peter Beck
Yes. Well, as we transition into rate production of the product, we have that much, much more under our roof. When you’re building large steel structures and launch sites and things like that, you don’t have that in house capability to do those kinds of things. The early prototypes were hand laid rather than being made on the AFP machine, which is now of course up and running and commissioned. So some of those things delay.

But there’s just some practicalities around doing things for one off. It doesn’t make sense to build all that capability in house. But I’d say as time goes on and as rate production starts to increase, we become far less reliant on those external contractors.

### Jason Gursky
Right. Okay. I’ve got just a few more quick ones, if you’ll humor me. On the pipeline in space systems, yes, in space systems in the pipeline, I’m just kind of curious what you are seeing and what the shape of that business might look like in the future. And I’m thinking about a split between you being the OEM or the kind of the prime building a full spacecraft versus you being a supplier into others.

How what do you see out there? Are you guys going to end up being more of a components business, more of an OEM? Is it going to be a fiftyfifty split? I’m just kind of curious what you’re seeing.

### Peter Beck
Well, I think our aspiration Jason is we want to provide the service. So a higher tier than certainly just building the satellite and the higher tier again just providing the components. But the beauty of the way that we run the business is that we can fiercely bid on a program that we want to go after. And even if we don’t win, we still end up kind of winning because chances are we’ll have some content and components in many of those larger programs. But certainly there’s a few things we’re going after, right?

One is very large U. S. Government programs which we think we have some very discriminating technologies or capabilities and then of course other large commercial constellations and programs which you’ve seen us execute against as well. And always we like to have a NASA science mission on the books as well. So we’ve generally had a moon mission, a Mars mission or something on the books because we believe that’s important to create technologies and for the company.

So you’ll see those consistent sort of programs going out. But I mean, where we’re really trying to get to is providing the service, not just providing components or subsystems or satellite buses.

### Jason Gursky
Right. So then, Adam, I’ll get you involved here really quickly then. So your comment about two thirds, one third, two third on the services and one third on launch, does that include this like third leg that you are all planning to stand up at some point the services part of the business? I just I’m trying to figure out whether you’re going to be adding a new segment at some point or if that services part where you’re going to be operating Constellations will be a part of the Space Systems business. And that two thirds, one third mix is kind of what you were kind of gets encapsulated into that.

### Adam Spice
Yes. Well, I think given the overall much larger size of the opportunity on the application side, I would expect that to fundamentally change that we’ve articulated the total addressable market opportunity in each segment. Launch we articulated is roughly a $10,000,000,000 TAM. Systems and subsystems around satellites are around a $30,000,000,000 TAM and then the applications is perhaps an order of magnitude of that. So really I think over time with the two third, one third was really a function of kind of the business as it exists today without that third leg of stool. Okay.

### Jason Gursky
Yes. I just wanted to make sure I confirmed that. I didn’t want people to be hanging on that word. And then two last really quick ones. Tariffs, next Tuesday could be a big day. Do you have any exposure to Canada or Mexico in particular? I’m thinking there’s some guys up in Canada that make antennas. I don’t know if you’re reliant on them. I’m just kind of curious, you’re performing against fixed price contracts where your some of your inputs might be going up in price as a result of tariffs that come into the fold next week?

### Peter Beck
Yes, I mean, I can make some comment there and then then pass it. So obviously we have Sinclair Interplanetary, so they are Toronto based RACHT, Windows and Star Trek business unit up there. So we do have some exposure. But maybe Adam you’re probably best placed on some of the financial questions.

### Adam Spice
Yes, Jason, we really don’t have a lot of exposure. We certainly have our reaction wheels from StarTracker and Sunsets are business that we acquired several years ago up in Toronto. But I would say that that doesn’t really I would say we don’t do mass volume production of those solutions, especially the reaction wheels in Canada. Those take place actually in New Zealand. And certainly with our MDA Globalstar situation where we actually do the buses and then we ship the buses to Montreal for AIT, it’s really going from The U.S. to Canada. And there’s I’m sure there’s a lot of intricacies around kind of how you the value of those systems they go across that border. But right now I’d say, look, we don’t see tariffs as impacting us significantly at this point. I think we’re pretty fortunate that the majority of our, I’d say, intensity within the company is really between The U.S. And New Zealand.

### Jason Gursky
Right. Okay, great. I’ll leave it there. I appreciate the time guys.

### Kelvin, Conference Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Rasmussen of Stifel. Please go ahead.

### Erik Rasmussen
Yes. Thanks guys for taking the questions. Maybe just on the flag of light, the new satellite low cost satellite, what is the throughput expectation for that? And do you have sort of the infrastructure to support your aspirations in that new opportunity?

### Peter Beck
Yes. Hey, Erik. So the throughput of that is designed to be couple of satellites a week up to a satellite a day depending on the customer or the opportunity that we go after. We’ve got some pretty you’ve been to some of the facilities, the headquarters building which is now basically a satellite manufacturing facility has ample kind of space to be able to execute that. And if you look across all the subsystems, in many, many areas we’ve already scaled whether it be solar or reaction wheels.

So in some of those systems we provide to some of the larger constellations already. So those things are already being produced at scale. But as far as final integration, I mean, we stand up and bring down lines for spacecraft now relatively frequently depending on what the customer needs. So I would say that the vast majority of the capability exists.

### Erik Rasmussen
Great. And then maybe just on Neutron, the push out and it really again, it doesn’t sound like a whole big change. I mean, I think you were talking about the last update was no earlier than mid-twenty twenty five and I think everyone was just so focused on just mid-twenty twenty five. But here it’s second half. But what I guess how achievable is this at this point?

I mean, do you consider this more less of a stretch goal than sort of where we were the last time when you made the no earlier than 2025 estimate?

### Peter Beck
Yes. It feels about the same to be honest with you, Eric. I mean, in a few months here in the year, it’s really in the noise. But we just want to be as transparent as we can where we see things. And, but, yes, look, I mean, what we’re trying to bring here to market in this vehicle in such a short timeframe, it’s like I say, it’s kind of in the noise.

But, yes, we’re just being transparent.

### Erik Rasmussen 
Okay. Maybe then on Electron, have you seen any changes in customer behavior or demand that maybe suggest things are slower than what you expected? Because I think I recall for this year, we’re maybe looking at around 26 launches, but it sounds like you’re expecting around 20 or so launches for this year. Any sort of comments you can make on that?

### Peter Beck
Well, I think we’re just being a little bit more cautious this year because we had a big manifest last year and we launched everything that turned up. So and that’s the kind of the reality of the Electron product that’s why people pay the premium is because they get to launch when they need to launch. So we have a really strong sales year last year and so far this year for Electron as you saw we added a bunch more this year alone and we continue to see growth in that product. So it certainly doesn’t feel like it’s slowing down from our perspective, but I think it’s certainly the sales cycles and sales aren’t, but I think we’re always a little bit cautious because we and promising how many launches we’re going to do because it’s just not in our control.

### Adam Spice
Yes. And Eric, I’m focused on just the growth in the backlog and I think the thing that gives us encouragement is the fact that we’re seeing increasing size of the contracts that we’re signing with customers versus numbers of launches. It’s in new areas as well so that electron business is diversifying now particularly with haste. So we’ve got diversity increasing in the business, absolute increase in scale and with that increasing ASPs. And as we’ve talked about many times before across various conferences and venues, this business is a it’s a scale business, right?

You have to the more you can absorb those standing costs across a greater number of units, your economics get much better. And that’s actually what we see playing out over the coming quarters is as we continue to scale the launch cadence, the margins benefit significantly as you just get to absorb those relatively static fixed costs over a greater number of units. So, yes, I agree with Pete, I don’t think there’s nothing that I see when we have our demand assessment kind of reviews internally that would say this market is slowing down at all. In fact, I think kind of adding that haste leg to the stool I think has been super helpful and encouraging because that’s a very strategic need that’s being met in a unique way by this vehicle. So, yes, I think we’re very encouraged by what we see.

### Erik Rasmussen 
Great. I just want to maybe bounce back to Neutron real quick. With this updated timeline, do you still are you still within sort of the framework of being able to support NSSL? Maybe just talk about that timeline in relation to sort of your new update?

### Peter Beck
Yes, sure. I mean, we were working alongside the Space Force and have done for many years. And And no, it won’t affect that ability to on ramp. I mean the criteria is a credible path to launch by the end of the year and by absolutely me by all measures of that, I think we’re fine.

### Erik Rasmussen 
Great. Thank you.

### Kelvin, Conference Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Andre Madrid with BTIG. Please go ahead.

### Andre Madrid
Hey, everyone. Good afternoon and thanks for the question. Yes, I mean to touch back on Space Apps, I know this has always kind of been on in the background even going back to when you guys first went public in 2021. Given that you’re comfortable unveiling the flat light platform today, could you maybe walk us through how you’d expect this application to materially contribute to the business through the years? Maybe when we could see a meaningful step up of any measure?

### Peter Beck
Yes. Hi, Andre. Well, I mean, look, it’s kind of difficult to talk about that. I mean, the most important thing really is Neutron because if we take our friends over at SpaceX and the Starlink constellation, Starlink is a great satellite, but the real needle mover there was high frequency low cost launch that’s why Neutron is so important. So we kind of methodically step by step creating all of the right ingredients to be able to build constellations at scale.

But the really, really important element of that is Neutron and while that’s occurring in the background, we’ve just like I said, just methodically building the capability to on the spacecraft side.

Yes. No, that’s a good point. I appreciate you highlighting that. And then maybe if I may follow-up, looking at the true backlog mix, I know Adam touched on this before, but it’s fifty fifty commercial defense national security. But I mean, given that like you said most of the size not most sizable portion of commercial is bound for defense and national security customers.

### Andre Madrid
What’s the true mix do you think?

### Peter Beck
It’s probably, I would say probably more like seventy-thirty percent. What do you think, Adam?

### Adam Spice
Yes, maybe even higher than that. I think it’s probably closer to north of 80% would be where the end, I’d say consumption of the data coming off the things that we launch get consumed in one way or other by a government, whether it’s U. S. Government or other governments. If you look at like, again, a lot of the electrons are really popular vehicle for remote sensing capabilities.

And again a lot of those customers it used to be people were saying that counting cars in Walmart (NYSE:WMT) parking lots was be the killer app for Earth observation. That clearly wasn’t the case. It ends up being selling much of what gets generated from these commercial consolations to the U. S. Government for national security, weather, and other types of data.

So, yes, I think it’s probably north of 80% would be my guess, but it’s just a guess.

### Andre Madrid
Got it. Got it. No, that’s helpful color. I’ll leave it there. Thanks, Peter and Adam.

### Adam Spice
Thank you.

### Peter Beck
Thanks.

### Kelvin, Conference Operator
There are no further questions at this time. With that, I will now turn the call back over to sir Peter Beck for final closing remarks. Please go ahead.

### Peter Beck
Yes, thanks very much. And before we close out today, there are some up and coming conferences that we’ll be attending, shown below. We look forward to sharing more exciting news and updates with you. Otherwise, thanks for joining us. That wraps up today’s call and we look forward to speaking with you again about the exciting progress being made at Rocket Lab.

Thanks very much.

### Kelvin, Conference Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes your conference call. We thank you for participating and ask that you please disconnect your lines.

